README.md, before:

# LoKI: Low-damage Knowledge Implanting of Large Language Models


## Usage

Currently, our code does not enforce specific library versions. The training workflow is based on **Llama-Factory**. To execute training, we recommend installing Llama-Factory first, and then running the following commands to install the dependencies required by LoKI to avoid dependency conflicts.

```bash
cd LoKI
conda create -n loki python=3.10
pip install -e .
```

We do not provide detailed code explanations for the entire process—please refer to the workflow described in the paper.

### Running Analysing

The current code supports performing the KVA process on the Qwen2.5 and Llama series models. Execution commands are stored in the Makefile. You can run the KVA process with the following commands. To change related parameters, please check the Makefile.

**Note:** The current code does not support multi-GPU processing. For models of 8B and above, we recommend using GPUs with 80GB of memory. If you encounter memory issues, we provide a temporary degradation solution: in `analysing_mmlu_().py`, replace the `forward_with_partitioning` method with `forward_with_partitioning_single`.

For Qwen2.5:
```bash
make analysing_mmlu_qwen2
```

For Llama:
```bash
make analysing_mmlu_llama
```

After execution, an HDF5 file recording the KVA results will be generated in the corresponding directory.

## Running Selecting

Use the generated HDF5 file in `selecting_utils.ipynb` to perform the **Layer-Balanced Strategy** and generate trainable node JSON files for training. Note that we have already provided these JSON files in the `kva_result/pos_json` directory.

## Running Implanting

We use **Llama-Factory** to perform the training. Before training, please prepare the following:

1. Use `utils.ipynb` with the trainable node JSON files to generate the **LoKI model**, i.e., a model where target Linear layers are replaced with LoKI Linear layers.
2. Modify the training configuration files under the `lf_config` folder for the corresponding dataset (bash scripts and YAML files), setting the paths and training parameters accordingly. Fields that need manual modification are marked with `()` in the YAML file. In the bash script, you need to modify the path to Llama-Factory.

After completing the steps above, run the following commands to start training:

```bash
cd lf_config/(dataset_name)
bash train.sh
```

Commit message:

Refactor MMLU analysis scripts and KVA models to utilize Captum-based Integrated Gradients
- Updated `analyse_mmlu_qwen2.py` to enhance the MMLU analysis process with Captum's LayerIntegratedGradients.
- Removed the deprecated `analyse_mmlu_qwen2_captum.py` file.
- Simplified the conversation building process in `build_conversation` function.
- Enhanced argument parsing in the main script to include integration method and flash attention options.
- Modified KVA models (`kva_qwen2.py` and `kva_llama.py`) to implement Captum for integrated gradients computation.
- Removed unused classes and methods related to previous gradient computation methods.
- Cleaned up the KVA model classes to improve readability and maintainability.
- Updated documentation strings for clarity on usage and functionality.

README.md, after:

# LoKI: Low-damage Knowledge Implanting of Large Language Models


## Usage

This project uses **uv** for dependency management. The training workflow is based on **Llama-Factory**. 

### Setup

```bash
# Install uv if not already installed
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Install dependencies
cd LoKI
uv sync

# Install Llama-Factory in the UV environment (for training)
uv pip install llama-factory
```

We do not provide detailed code explanations for the entire process—please refer to the workflow described in the paper.

### Running Analysing

The current code uses **Captum's LayerIntegratedGradients** for the KVA process and supports Qwen2.5 and Llama series models. Execution commands are stored in the Makefile.

**Note:** The current code does not support multi-GPU processing. All commands should be run within the UV environment.

For Qwen2.5:
```bash
make analysing_mmlu_qwen2
```

For Llama:
```bash
make analysing_mmlu_llama
```

You can customize integration parameters (steps, method) by modifying the Makefile or running directly:
```bash
uv run accelerate launch --mixed_precision bf16 analyse_mmlu_llama.py \
    --model_path meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    --output_dir kva_result/hdf5/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    --steps 7 \
    --result_file kva_mmlu.h5 \
    --write_mode w \
    --ig_method riemann_trapezoid
```

Supported integration methods: `riemann_trapezoid` (default), `gausslegendre`, `riemann_left`, `riemann_right`, `riemann_middle`.

After execution, an HDF5 file recording the KVA results will be generated in the corresponding directory.

## Running Selecting

Use the generated HDF5 file in `selecting_utils.ipynb` to perform the **Layer-Balanced Strategy** and generate trainable node JSON files for training. Note that we have already provided these JSON files in the `kva_result/pos_json` directory.

## Running Implanting

We use **Llama-Factory** to perform the training. Before training, please prepare the following:

1. Use `utils.ipynb` with the trainable node JSON files to generate the **LoKI model**, i.e., a model where target Linear layers are replaced with LoKI Linear layers.
2. Modify the training configuration files under the `lf_config` folder for the corresponding dataset (bash scripts and YAML files), setting the paths and training parameters accordingly. Fields that need manual modification are marked with `()` in the YAML file. In the bash script, you need to modify the path to Llama-Factory.

After completing the steps above, run the following commands to start training:

```bash
cd lf_config/(dataset_name)
bash train.sh
```
